Ah! Exams are around the corner...Can you smell the dread, confusion, and panic mixed in with just a hint of fear? Yeah, we all are in the same situation! 🫂

To take our minds off of the stress and fear festering within us all, IEEE SB presents a series of blog articles penned by our own, extremely talented members that are sure to alleviate the intensities and provide enthralling titbits of information💙.

So be sure to take a minute to digest some interesting new knowledge and take little pauses to relax and re-centre yourselves ✨

THE FAST PACING TECHNOLOGICAL WORLD AND LACKING UNIVERSITY SYLLABI

The digital divide is increasing day by day. In every next step, these technologies lead the world to a new phase of innovation. The lacking of knowledge of these applied sciences is a huge hurdle to the success of any nation lodge around the globe. We have to say that the incredible advancement of current high tech makes life completely dependent on it and lacking its knowledge may lead to the backbreaking of survival.

"It's not that we use technology, we live with it."

Man always strives to learn new things whether they are in the form of practical or any other. He is also keen to pass this knowledge to his surroundings. Student-teacher relationships play a key role in the objective of education. The most fascinating thing while working in a university is the construction of a strong bond between teachers and students.

A survey about the technology in the universities has shown that teachers believe mechanization can boost pupils’ literacy, but down-and-out access to resources and teacher training means many are missing out.

There are many challenges we have to face in the way of providing a digital territory. In universities, the major issue of lacking the syllabus is limited resources. Even with adequate technology access, effective professional development remains a reason that makes it difficult to increase the level of technology integration in classrooms. It is only when teachers are provided with the knowledge, skills, resources, and support that they will integrate technology into the curriculum to maximize its effects on teaching and learning. 

This is consistent with other research that found teachers’ readiness, or lack thereof, had the highest total effect on whether the teachers integrated technology in their classrooms. The most reasonable and sensible hurdle in lacking a technological syllabus is the teacher’s perception. Despite increasing access to technology in schools, teachers are usually portrayed as hesitant users. They are accustomed to the old standard which can create frustration when trying to shift to a new paradigm leading them to stray away from the use of 21st-century technological devices. Teachers who are not quite digitally literate, and unable to understand and use information from a variety of digital sources, may not portray it properly to the students.

Hence, the education districts would greatly benefit from focusing on the best networking management tools for their system to further prepare classrooms for tomorrow’s networking requirements. The integration of technology in the classroom is a multifarious process. One of the greatest challenges for teachers is the link between educational technological innovations, promising practices for teaching and learning, and the integration of technology with increases in student achievement. 

Successful students' use of technology in education hinges on knowing how to manage technology efficiently and overcoming barriers that come with integrating technology. As society continues to grow in its use of technology for social reasons it is expected that education will continue to grow in the usage of such tools as well. Addressing these barriers is a step in a positive direction in closing this gap.

🖋️Authored by: Khadija Binte Munawar
